Overpass the Hash
With overpass the hash, we can “over”
abuse a NTLM user hash
to gain a full Kerberos Ticket Granting
Ticket or service ticket,
which grants us access to another
machine or service as that user.
To demonstrate this, let’s assume we
have compromised a workstation
that the Jeff_Admin user
has authenticated to,
and that machine is now
caching his credentials.
To simulate this cached credential,
we will run a process as Jeff_Admin,
which prompts authentication.
The simplest way to do this is to right-
click the Notepad icon on the taskbar,
and shift-right click the Notepad
icon on the popup.
From here, we select
‘Run as different user’,
and enter “jeff_admin” as the username
along with the password,
which will launch Notepad in the context
of the jeff_admin user.
After successful authentication, the
credentials will be cached on the machine.
We can confirm this with the
logonpasswords command from mimikatz.
This command dumps the cached password
hashes, including the NTLM hash
for Jeff_admin which we will
leverage to overpass the hash.
The basic idea of the overpass the hash
technique is to turn the NTLM hash
into a Kerberos ticket and avoid
the use of NTLM authentication.
A simple way to do this is with the
pth command from Mimikatz.
The command requires a few arguments and
creates a new PowerShell process
that will allow us to obtain Kerberos
tickets without performing
NTLM authentication over the network,
unlike a traditional pass-the-hash attack.
As the first argument, we specify /user,
and /domain,
setting them to jeff_admin
and corp.com respectively.
Next, we specify the NTLM hash with /ntlm,
and finally use /run to specify the
process to create,
in this case PowerShell.
Now we have a new
PowerShell session
that allows us to execute
commands as Jeff_admin.
Let’s have a look at the cached
Kerberos tickets with klist.
No Kerberos tickets
have been cached,
but this is expected since Jeff_admin
has not performed an interactive login.
Let’s authenticate to a network
share on the domain controller
in order to generate a TGT.
The net use command was successful.
Now, we’ll use the klist command to list
the newly requested Kerberos tickets,
which includea a TGT and
a TGS for the CIFS service.
We have now converted our
NTLM hash into a Kerberos TGT
allowing us to use any tools that
rely on Kerberos authentication,
such as the official PsExec
application from Microsoft.
PsExec can run a command remotely
but does not accept password hashes.
Since we have generated Kerberos
tickets and operate in the context
of Jeff_Admin in the PowerShell session,
we can obtain code execution on the
domain controller by reusing the TGT.
Let’s give it a try.
We will run PsExec to launch cmd.exe
remotely on the dc01 machine,
as Jeff_Admin.
We have successfully reused
the Kerberos TGT
to launch a command shell
on the domain controller.
We have succeeded in upgrading
a cached NTLM password hash
to a Kerberos TGT and used it
to gain remote code execution.